$ consultchimps sheets consolidate --help
exit code: 0

--- stdout ---
Usage: consultchimps sheets consolidate [options] <inputs...>

stack the rows from every worksheet and CSV file into one combined sheet,
matching columns by header

Arguments:
  inputs                       Excel or CSV files, folders, or quoted patterns
                               such as "inputs/*.xlsx"

Options:
  -o, --output <path>          where to save the new consolidated .xlsx
                               workbook, or .csv file
  --sheet <names...>           include only worksheets with these exact names
  --header-row <number>        row containing column names, counted from 1
  --hidden                     include hidden worksheets as well as visible ones
  --normalize-headers          match columns whose headers differ only in case,
                               spacing, or punctuation, such as "Failed Checks"
                               and "Failed_Checks"
  --map <file>                 JSON column mapping that folds differently named
                               columns into one column each
  --suggest-map <file>         write a draft column mapping built from the
                               headers found, for you to review
  --no-source                  leave out columns that identify each row's source
                               file, worksheet, and row
  --output-sheet <name>        name of the worksheet created in the new workbook
                               (default: "Consolidated")
  --values                     write stored values instead of formulas while
                               preserving output formatting
  -f, --force                  replace the output file if it already exists; use
                               with care
  --csv-delimiter <delimiter>  CSV field delimiter: comma, semicolon, tab, pipe,
                               or one character (default: guessed from the file)
  --csv-encoding <encoding>    CSV text encoding: utf-8, utf-16le, utf-16be, or
                               windows-1252 (default: detected from the file; a
                               byte order mark wins)
  --csv-numbers                read CSV fields that hold only a number as
                               numbers; every field is text otherwise
  --csv-decimal <separator>    decimal separator --csv-numbers reads: "." or ","
                               (default: ".")
  --csv-thousands <separator>  thousands separator --csv-numbers reads: ",",
                               ".", space, apostrophe, or none (default: ",", or
                               "." when the decimal is ",")
  --csv-dates <order>          read CSV dates: iso reads yyyy-mm-dd only; dmy,
                               mdy, or ymd also read dates in that order
  --output-format <format>     write xlsx or csv; an output name ending in .csv
                               or .xlsx decides it too, and the two must agree
  --csv-bom <true|false>       start a CSV output with a UTF-8 byte order mark
                               so Excel opens it as UTF-8 (default: true)
  -h, --help                   display help for command

Examples:
  consultchimps sheets consolidate "inputs/*.xlsx" -o combined.xlsx
  consultchimps sheets consolidate north.xlsx south.xlsx --output combined.xlsx
  consultchimps sheets consolidate north.xlsx exports/ --csv-numbers -o combined.xlsx
  consultchimps sheets consolidate "inputs/*.xlsx" -o combined.csv

What happens:
  1. ConsultChimps finds the matching Excel and CSV files.
  2. It reads every selected, non-empty worksheet.
  3. It matches columns by header name and combines all data rows.
  4. It writes one new workbook or CSV file and explains exactly what was
     created.

Your original files are never changed.
Consolidation already writes stored values rather than copying formulas;
--values makes that requirement explicit.

Matching columns that are named differently:
  consultchimps sheets consolidate inputs/ --suggest-map draft.json -o combined.xlsx
  consultchimps sheets consolidate inputs/ --map mapping.json -o combined.xlsx

  --suggest-map writes a draft mapping grouping the headers that differ only in
  case, spacing, or punctuation, for you to read and edit; nothing is applied
  for you. --map then folds every listed spelling into the one column you named.
  A column no mapping entry covers keeps its own name and is reported as a
  warning. Two columns of one worksheet folding into one column stop the run
  rather than quietly losing a value. Use one option or the other, not both.

CSV files:
  Each CSV file is one worksheet named after the file. Its encoding and
  delimiter are detected; --csv-encoding and --csv-delimiter override them,
  though a byte order mark wins over a contradicting --csv-encoding.
  Every field stays text unless --csv-numbers or --csv-dates asks otherwise,
  and neither changes a field that is not wholly a number or a date.
  Name the output .csv, or use --output-format csv, to write a CSV file:
  UTF-8 with a byte order mark (--csv-bom false leaves it out), and text that
  would start a formula prefixed with an apostrophe.

When you want each worksheet kept as its own tab instead:
  Use consultchimps sheets merge to copy every worksheet into one workbook
  without combining any rows.


--- stderr ---
(empty)
