$ consultchimps sheets inspect --help
exit code: 0

--- stdout ---
Usage: consultchimps sheets inspect [options] <input>

describe what is in an Excel workbook or CSV file, creating and changing nothing

Arguments:
  input                        the .xlsx, .xlsm, or .csv file to describe

Options:
  --sheet <name>               describe only the worksheet with this exact name;
                               repeat for several
  --header-row <number>        row containing column names, counted from 1
  --hidden                     describe hidden worksheets as well as visible
                               ones
  --samples <number>           distinct sample values to report per column, from
                               0 to 5 (default: 5)
  --csv-delimiter <delimiter>  CSV field delimiter: comma, semicolon, tab, pipe,
                               or one character (default: guessed from the file)
  --csv-encoding <encoding>    CSV text encoding: utf-8, utf-16le, utf-16be, or
                               windows-1252 (default: detected from the file; a
                               byte order mark wins)
  --csv-numbers                read CSV fields that hold only a number as
                               numbers; every field is text otherwise
  --csv-decimal <separator>    decimal separator --csv-numbers reads: "." or ","
                               (default: ".")
  --csv-thousands <separator>  thousands separator --csv-numbers reads: ",",
                               ".", space, apostrophe, or none (default: ",", or
                               "." when the decimal is ",")
  --csv-dates <order>          read CSV dates: iso reads yyyy-mm-dd only; dmy,
                               mdy, or ymd also read dates in that order
  -h, --help                   display help for command

Examples:
  consultchimps sheets inspect clients.xlsx
  consultchimps sheets inspect clients.xlsx --hidden --samples 2
  consultchimps sheets inspect --sheet North --sheet South clients.xlsx
  consultchimps sheets inspect export.csv --csv-numbers

What you get:
  1. Each described worksheet, with its visibility, the size of its used range,
     and how many data rows sit below its header row.
  2. The header row an operation would actually use, and every column on it
     with a few of the values stored beneath it.
  3. The Excel Tables and named ranges the described worksheets contain.

Sample values are the first few distinct non-empty values a column stores, at
most five, reported exactly as the workbook holds them: text is quoted, so the
number 1 and the text "1" stay apart. Use --samples 0 for headers only.

No file is created and nothing in the workbook is changed. Run this before
consolidating, merging, or splitting to confirm the worksheet names, header
rows, and column spellings those commands will match on.


--- stderr ---
(empty)
